__Project description:__
_Temporay project title:_ Multi-sensor framework for enhance contrail observation capabilities
_What is the problem?:_ Aircraft condensation trails (contrails or aviation-induced cloudiness) substantially contribute to the climate impact of the aviation sector. Just like natural clouds, contrails interact with the radiative budget of our planet; while an individual contrail can be cooling or warming (inlcuding all contrails that persist at night), the overall impact from contrails is warming. The bulk of this contrial impact is casued by persistent contrails that form in ice-suppersaturated layers of the atmosphere and whose lifetimes can be up to several hours. 
_Is there a solution?:_ The ice-supersaturatied conditions that enable contrail persistence generally appear in rather thin, yet temporally and spatially changing, layers. Due to their limited thickness, vertically deviating a flight around these conditions, just like it is done already to avoid turbulent air masses, can avoid the formation of such persistent contrails. The additional fuel burn and related climate impact is small in comparison to the potential mitigation of the contrail impact. This purely operational approach is called _Contrail Avoidance_ and can be implemented today. However, successful contrail avoidance requires confident knowledge of the conditions of the atmopshere (either through forecasting or observations) as well as the capability to verify the outcomes of potential avoidance maneuvers.
_The crux:_ Contrail simulations using numerical weather prediction (NWP) data and contrail process models have shown inconsistencies, both when comparing different models to each other, as well as when compared against observational data. There further are shortcomings in observational data including confidently identifying the absence of a contrails when none was observed as well as dealing with the trade-off of spatial, temporal, and radiometric resolution as well as spatial coverage.
_What is theis project trying to achieve?:_ With this porject, I aim to leverage different observational platforms and sensors that are already in use for contrail observations, as well as potentially identify additional data sources, and combine those in the 4D space. This includes coming up with a dataformat that allows to combine different singnals and input dataformats with different properties (spectrum, resolution, etc.). Part of this is also to consider how a measurment at one timestep can infer a time in the future, by making assumptions about the advection of the measured airmasses. Sensors that are being considered include geostationary satellite imagers (GOES ABI), low-Earth oriting satellite imagers (such as VIIRS), ground-based cameras (LAE sky cam, Global Meteor Network cameras), lidars (MPLNET, EarthCARE), and radiosonde datta (GRUAN, WindBorne). Beyong identifying contrails, each contrail will require an identifier which can be the callsign of the flight that most likely formed it, as assigned via flight attributuion. The downstream goal is to identify contrails, link them across platforms, track them across time time, and investigate their evolution. A broad observational dataset can then be used to evaluate contrail preditictions with more rigor and potentially inform avoidance decisions.